>> Estelle Weyl: So now let's move
on to transitions and animations.
>> Estelle Weyl: If you
are following along,
the URL is
estelle.github.io/cssmastery/animations.
If you haven't heard me say this before,
all you have to do is remember my name,
Estelle, go to my GitHub,
estelle.github.io.
And either look for the CSS mastery class
and click on the Animations link or
go to CSS mastery and
you'll find the link there.
So first lets talk about transitions.
Now I can ask the question.
Who here has ever done a transition?
Everyone has, because everyone has
changed a link color on hover, right?
That's a transition.
It is a transition over 0 seconds.
You can say take a full second to do it
and you have really bad user experience.
But you can do it.
You can also say, basically, all
the lengths take two seconds before you
transition as a nice little April Fool's
joke or a horrible April Fool's joke.
Okay, so let's talk a little bit
about the transition properties.
I just showed you how
simple a transition is.
You just basically say,
do it over one second, we're good.
But we have several transition properties.
We have the transition-property property,
which is the properties
you want to transition.
The key term all, which is the default.
Your transition duration which is
how long should the transition take.
You have transition timing function which
is a bezier curve of transition and
we'll go to deep dive into
this during the animation.
So if you don't understand that yet,
don't worry.
Transition delay is the seconds or
milliseconds and
it is required that you include the s or
the ms before the transition starts.
The ms and the s are both required for
transition duration and transition delay.
And then there's the transition, which
is shorthand for all four properties.
So, in this example, ooh, that is bad.
But, yes, it is transitioning.
On hover, when I hover over the code,
the color goes from black to red maybe,
I don't know.
The font size goes from 85% to 120%.
The background color goes from white
opaque to white slightly less opaque.
And here we go.
It actually is blue not red.
The color used to be red on this deck and
I changed it to blue.
I did a global search and
replace and this is what happens.
So basically it's the same as writing.
So what I wrote, my transition code is
code, transition, color, font-size,
and background size over 2s, ease in,
but wait 50 more seconds for it to go.
So if I go like this, it can start
transitioning coz I was off that slide for
less than 50 milliseconds.
If you gonna do a transition effect on
a link other than just changing the color,
it's good to wait 50 milliseconds just in
case someone is dragging their mouth so
in part page the other.
50 milliseconds is not long enough for
someone to notice the delay, but
having something jump out
at them is noticeable.
I could have also written all,
2 seconds ease in 50 milliseconds.
What is transitioning is any property
that is from the previous state to
the current state.
>> Estelle Weyl: A better effect because
you saw how choppy that was, right?
Would be to actually use transforms.
So here, look how nice and smooth that is.
The problem is because I'm
transforming it I'm growing it, right?
Before, I was pushing the bottom
code down and here I'm not,
I'm actually going right over it.
>> Estelle Weyl: Okay, so
when you're transitioning something,
the stacking context comes up.
So that's why,
cuz the index might be the exact same, but
that code is gonna be on top of it because
the bottom one is not being transitioned.
So this is a better effect,
has better performance but
it might not the effect you want.
Yes.
>> Speaker 2: Keep the same items, in the
flow of the page when you're transforming
it like that and making it big.
>> Estelle Weyl: Yeah,
nothing else would have moved.
It's only repainting that one element and
it's growing it bigger.